Okay, so the next set of TypeScript
language features we're going to talk
about is a set of improvements
around what are called tuple types.
So the first of these improvements
came in TypeScript 4.0,
and it's called variadic tuple types.
So let's say that I had a type like this,
and we'll say that it's
an array starting and ending with
a Boolean with something in between.
So there's our something we're gonna
make this generic like, should work for
anything.
And now we can do Boolean, ...T,
oops and then Boolean.
So before TypeScript
4.0 you would have been
forced to put this ...T as
the last element of the array.
But now we have the ability to say
there's some stuff, could be strings,
could be numbers and there is a Boolean at
the beginning and a Boolean at the end.
This may not seem like a big deal but some
libraries that you use, like if you use
lodash-es, functional programming,
collection of utilities or RxJS.
This is a pretty huge deal.
It makes it much simpler to type
certain kinds of functions where,
maybe you're piping a bunch
of things together.
Or even something like function bind and
function apply, where you have this
concept of like a partial application or
currying, right?
This makes typing that kind of thing
where you have some arguments and
then maybe begin and end stuff.
It's much easier.
Next we have labeled tuple types.
So let's say that,
we want a street address again, right?
So we have a type, address.
And we can define this as
let's say a house number.
I know that we can have letters and
house numbers, but
I'm trying to make this interesting.
And then, we have a city and
a state, And a postal code.
Let's pretend that's a number as well.
Now, we might have a function
here called print address.
And you might want to say hey,
the arguments I take,
It's just all of the things that
are in an address, in order, right?
So, but the problem here is we have a
pretty miserable autocomplete experience.
Look at this, we've got address0,
address1, address2.
If I'm consuming this,
I'm gonna have to jump into this file
wherever print address is defined.
And I'm gonna have to kinda go on
a little detective story to try to
investigate what the heck is
this thing actually consuming?
It's not great.
So, labelled tuple types
are what let us do this.
And as soon as we start labelling
each of these elements,
we must continue labelling them.
So you have to have it for all of them.
So something like this are still an array,
although it kinda looks like the key value
pairs we're used to seeing in an object.
And look how much nicer
the autocomplete is now, right?
We get that street number,
city, state, postal.
So I'm a big fan of tuples.
I think that for one,
especially if you're serializing data,
if you're getting an API response,
this saves a lot of space.
May seem like a small
deal in this example, but
imagine that you're getting,
potentially 50 kiloBytes of JSON.
For a big app, this is not
beyond the realm of possibility.
So you can save a lot of space and
save a lot of data,
which matters to your users as well,
particularly in places in the world
where you have metered connections and
people pay per byte,
per kilobyte, per gigabyte.
This is a more compact way
to represent the same data.
And in your app, you get the same great
experience as if this were an object with
property names and values,
property names and values, right?
You still can have that nice
autocomplete regardless.
The next category of advancements in
the TypeScript language have to do
with type aliases and interfaces.
So if you watched
TypeScript 3 Fundamentals,
v2 we talked a little bit about
how we would type JSON, right?
Only certain kinds of
values are allowed in JSON.
You can't have functions, for example.
So we worked, combined the type and
an interface,
a type alias and an interface, which
at the time was the only way to do it.
In order to create something that
describes any allowed JSON value.
So I wanna really quickly
write out that solution.
So we had something like this,
type JSON array,
Which was, sorry, we did this interface,
JSON array extends.
It's an array of JSON values,
Where JSON value,
Was a string or number or
Boolean, or no, or JSON array.
Or I think we had a JSON object
that might have looked like this.
No, we had one more interface JSON
object which had an index signature.
And this was our old way of typing JSON.
Now, it is convoluted,
like crazy and it uses a hack.
It, so
the only reason this works is because
this type alias is evaluated eagerly.
And as it's parsed,
we kinda take note that, we're referring
to a JSON array at some point.
I expect this to be defined as a thing.
Same thing with object and then down
here we can kind of define these.
So we already, JSON value is already
understood, we already know what it is.
So we're taking advantage of the fact
that we can get through this,
and sort of put a pin in the task of
fleshing out what exactly does it mean
to be a JSON array in a JSON object?
These combination of these
two things that allow us
to create effectively a recursive type.
That would permit us to do
something like val is a,
we could do like nike, and then address.
Oops, sorry, I need a comma there.
Address is a Spear Street, right?
But if we did, we said wave to Mike.
We're gonna say it's gonna object and
it'll say, I'm sorry.
This function that you
added there is not allowed.
That's not JSON.
So I'm just simply showing
you nothing up my sleeve.
This works.
Now, what was added in
TypeScript 4.0 was the ability
to have recursive type aliases.
And what that would let me do here
it's only possible in TypeScript 4.0.
And later soon you continues
to work continues to
work I can refer to my
JSON value array here.
And then this JSON object thing I
can just peel this thing out, boom.
Get rid of my wave thing which is not
allowed, and it continues to work.
So we can have a recursive
type alias meaning this type,
JSONValue, in the definition
of what it is,
it refers to itself, in this case twice.
This makes it, I mean, we just deleted
a bunch of code, which is a good sign.
This usually means things
are made much simpler.
So that is recursive type aliases.
We also have recursive conditional types.
I'm not gonna get into those too much
because it's a very advanced feature and
you're unlikely to use it in your app
until you get really into the weeds
with generics.
Just wanna make note of that
lending in TypeScript 4.1.
And it would allow you effectively to do
something similar to what we have here,
which is in a conditional type, which is
the kind of looks like a ternary operator
with the question mark and the colon.
That type can refer to itself
in its own definition.
I will leave it as an exercise
to you to look more into that.
If it is relevant to your app,
I suspect it, for most of you,
it's not something you'll encounter.
But you may encounter this.
So, template type literals.
So you may be familiar with the idea
of tagged template literals,
which are these backtick strings, right?
Where we can have this dollar signs,
this is how we interpolate values
into strings in JavaScript.
We can do that when
defining type literals.
So if I had something like this,
corner equals,
Top or bottom and
left or right.
Let's see Swinging chair I'm
following my example here properly.
Let me restart VS code here real quick.
Just to make sure I'm not like
lagging behind in TypeScript version,
and I'm gonna comment the rest of
the stuff out in case it's interfering
It should work.
I know why this is not working.
It only works in TypeScript, [LAUGH] 4.1.
I have a note to myself here.
So I'm gonna install that real quick.
And we should see as soon
as this installs, and
as soon as I can switch over to it and
I'm gonna switch back.
We're not gonna be using the beta here,
just because I wanna keep things nice and
stable.
But here we can see,
that corner combines these two.
So we've got top left, top right,
bottom left, bottom right.
So anytime that you have sort of a,
you have a set of values and
you want a type that represents
all of the different
permutations of x crossed with y,
this is a great way to do this.
There are even words you can
add here like capitalize.
I think that's one of them.
Let's see.
Maybe a, Retry with parentheses here.
Yeah, that looks like it's parsing it
is a different kind of syntax here.
To be honest, I haven't used this one
much but apparently you can do this.
So I'm just gonna leave it at that.
Unlike where you can capitalize this.
You could say, I want the first part of
it to be an all caps, like capital TOP,
as opposed to it just literally
trying all the interpolations here.
Again, this is in a beta so it may be
that they're still iterating on this.
But the idea is that you could even modify
these string literals like these top and
bottom and incorporate that modification
into your your permutations there.
I'm gonna go back to
the regular TypeScript.
All right, before I move on,
any questions about these changes
to type aliases and interfaces?
And in this case, the literal type here,
although this is a very new thing.
Although I can see how especially
if you're doing like CSS and JS, or
if you're building react and
you need on click, on hover.
You could easily kind of create a nice
type that was added on to the beginning of
all these things.
That's where I can see
this being most useful.